*osc52.txt*   For Vim version 9.1.  Last change:  2025 Oct 16


			  VIM REFERENCE MANUAL

Use OSC 52 terminal command for clipboard support
==============================================================================


1. OVERVIEW					        *osc52-overview*

The osc52.vim plugin provides support for the OSC 52 terminal command, which
allows an application to access the clipboard by communicating with the
terminal.  This is useful in situations such as if you are in a SSH session.

                                                        *osc52-support*
In order for this plugin to work, the terminal Vim is running in must
recognize and handle the OSC 52 escape sequence.  You can easily check this
online. Additionally, while yanking is guaranteed to work, some terminals
don't implement the paste functionality.  If the terminal doesn't support
pasting, then nothing will happen upon trying to put from the clipboard.

                                                        *g:osc52_always_access*
If this global variable is true, then implicit accesses to the clipboard will
always be allowed, see |clipboard-provider-paste|, by default this is
disabled.  Note that some terminals have a confirm prompt before accessing the
clipboard, which can be annoying if this global variable is true. This is why
it is disabled. If your terminal does not do this, you are free to enable this
option.

                                                        *osc52-selections*
Note that this only applies to Wayland or X11 compiled versions of Vim.

Some terminals support the selection type parameter in the OSC 52 command.
This originates from X11, and some terminals check this parameter and handle
it accordingly.  If you have the "+" and "*" registers available and your
terminal handles this parameter, then the "+" register corresponds to the
regular selection, and the "*" register corresponds to the primary selection.
If your terminal does not handle it, then it is up to the terminal to handle
what selection to use.

2. HOW TO USE THE PLUGIN                                *osc52-how-to-use*

The osc52.vim plugin relys on Vim's clipboard provider functionality, see
|clipboard-providers|.  In short, add these commands to your vimrc to get
everything working: >
        packadd osc52
        set clipmethod^=osc52
<
                                                        *g:osc52_force_avail*
In most cases, the plugin should automatically detect and work if your
terminal supports the OSC 52 command.  Internally, it does this via a Primary
Device Attributes (DA1) query.  However, if it does not detect your terminal,
you may force enable it, set |g:osc52_force_avail| to true.  You may check if
the osc52.vim plugin is being used if the value of |v:clipmethod| is "osc52".

==============================================================================
vim:tw=78:ts=8:fo=tcq2:ft=help:
