# Lines starting with '#' are comments.
# Each line is a file pattern followed by one or more owners.
# You can use github users with @user or email addresses

# These owners will be the default owners for everything in the repo.
#*       @brammool

# Order is important. The last matching pattern has the most precedence.
# So if a pull request only touches javascript files, only these owners
# will be requested to review.

nsis/lang/russian.nsi					@RestorerZ
runtime/autoload/freebasic.vim				@dkearns
runtime/autoload/hare.vim				@selenebun
runtime/autoload/hcl.vim				@gpanders
runtime/autoload/modula2.vim				@dkearns
runtime/autoload/rubycomplete.vim			@segfault @dkearns
runtime/autoload/rust.vim				@lilyball
runtime/autoload/xmlformat.vim				@chrisbra
runtime/autoload/dist/json.vim				@habamax
runtime/colors/blue.vim					@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/darkblue.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/default.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/delek.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/desert.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/elflord.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/evening.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/habamax.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/industry.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/koehler.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/lunaperche.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/morning.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/murphy.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/pablo.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/peachpuff.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/quiet.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/retrobox.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/ron.vim					@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/shine.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/slate.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/sorbet.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/tools					@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/torte.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/wildcharm.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/zaibatsu.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/colors/zellner.vim				@habamax @romainl @neutaaaaan
runtime/compiler/checkstyle.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/cm3.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/cucumber.vim				@tpope
runtime/compiler/dart.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/dart2js.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/dart2native.vim			@dkearns
runtime/compiler/dartanalyser.vim			@dkearns
runtime/compiler/dartdevc.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/dartdoc.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/dartfmt.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/dotnet.vim				@nickspoons
runtime/compiler/eruby.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/fbc.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/gawk.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/gjs.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/gm2.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/go.vim					@dbarnett
runtime/compiler/groff.vim				@Konfekt
runtime/compiler/haml.vim				@tpope
runtime/compiler/hare.vim				@selenebun
runtime/compiler/icon.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/javac.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/jest.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/jjs.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/jshint.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/jsonlint.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/jq.vim					@vito-c
runtime/compiler/pandoc.vim				@Konfekt
runtime/compiler/perl.vim				@petdance @heptite
runtime/compiler/perlcritic.vim				@petdance @dkearns
runtime/compiler/php.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/phpstan.vim				@dietrichm
runtime/compiler/podchecker.vim				@petdance @dkearns
runtime/compiler/powershell.vim				@heaths
runtime/compiler/raco.vim				@benknoble
runtime/compiler/racomake.vim				@benknoble
runtime/compiler/racosetup.vim				@benknoble
runtime/compiler/racotest.vim				@benknoble
runtime/compiler/rake.vim				@tpope @dkearns
runtime/compiler/rhino.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/rspec.vim				@tpope @dkearns
runtime/compiler/rubocop.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/ruby.vim				@tpope @dkearns
runtime/compiler/rubyunit.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/sass.vim				@tpope
runtime/compiler/se.vim					@dkearns
runtime/compiler/shellcheck.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/sml.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/spectral.vim				@romainl
runtime/compiler/svelte-check.vim			@Konfekt
runtime/compiler/stylelint.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/tcl.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/tidy.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/ts-node.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/tsc.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/typedoc.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/xmllint.vim				@dkearns
runtime/compiler/xo.vim					@dkearns
runtime/compiler/yamllint.vim				@romainl
runtime/compiler/zsh.vim				@dkearns
runtime/doc/ft_hare.txt					@selenebun
runtime/doc/evim-ru.1					@RestorerZ
runtime/doc/evim-ru.UTF-8.1				@RestorerZ
runtime/doc/vim-ru.1					@RestorerZ
runtime/doc/vim-ru.UTF-8.1				@RestorerZ
runtime/doc/vimdiff-ru.1				@RestorerZ
runtime/doc/vimdiff-ru.UTF-8.1				@RestorerZ
runtime/doc/vimtutor-ru.1				@RestorerZ
runtime/doc/vimtutor-ru.UTF-8.1				@RestorerZ
runtime/doc/xxd-ru.1					@RestorerZ
runtime/doc/xxd-ru.UTF-8.1				@RestorerZ
runtime/ftplugin/abaqus.vim				@costerwi
runtime/ftplugin/abnf.vim				@A4-Tacks
runtime/ftplugin/antlr4.vim				@jiangyinzuo
runtime/ftplugin/apache.vim				@dubgeiser
runtime/ftplugin/arduino.vim				@k-takata
runtime/ftplugin/astro.vim				@romainl
runtime/ftplugin/asy.vim				@avidseeker
runtime/ftplugin/autohotkey.vim				@telemachus
runtime/ftplugin/awk.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/basic.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/brighterscript.vim			@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/brightscript.vim			@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/bst.vim				@tpope
runtime/ftplugin/c3.vim					@ttytm
runtime/ftplugin/cabal.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/cedar.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/cfg.vim				@chrisbra
runtime/ftplugin/chatito.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/ftplugin/chicken.vim				@evhan
runtime/ftplugin/clojure.vim				@axvr
runtime/ftplugin/cmakecache.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/cook.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/cs.vim					@nickspoons
runtime/ftplugin/csh.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/css.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/csv.vim				@habamax
runtime/ftplugin/cucumber.vim				@tpope
runtime/ftplugin/cuda.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/dart.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/dax.vim				@anarion80
runtime/ftplugin/deb822sources.vim			@jamessan
runtime/ftplugin/debchangelog.vim			@jamessan
runtime/ftplugin/debcontrol.vim				@jamessan
runtime/ftplugin/debsources.vim				@jamessan
runtime/ftplugin/desktop.vim				@e-kwsm
runtime/ftplugin/dnsmasq.vim				@dringsim
runtime/ftplugin/dosbatch.vim				@mrdubya
runtime/ftplugin/editorconfig.vim			@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/eiffel.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/elixir.vim				@mhanberg
runtime/ftplugin/erlang.vim				@hcs42
runtime/ftplugin/eruby.vim				@tpope @dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/expect.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/exports.vim				@mperry2
runtime/ftplugin/fennel.vim				@gpanders
runtime/ftplugin/fetchmail.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/fga.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/forth.vim				@jkotlinski
runtime/ftplugin/fpcmake.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/freebasic.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/fstab.vim				@rid9
runtime/ftplugin/gdb.vim				@xeyownt
runtime/ftplugin/gdscript.vim				@habamax
runtime/ftplugin/gdshader.vim				@habamax
runtime/ftplugin/git.vim				@tpope
runtime/ftplugin/gitattributes.vim			@ObserverOfTime
runtime/ftplugin/gitcommit.vim				@tpope
runtime/ftplugin/gitconfig.vim				@tpope
runtime/ftplugin/gitignore.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/ftplugin/gitrebase.vim				@tpope
runtime/ftplugin/gitsendemail.vim			@tpope
runtime/ftplugin/gleam.vim				@kirillmorozov
runtime/ftplugin/go.vim					@dbarnett
runtime/ftplugin/goaccess.vim				@meonkeys
runtime/ftplugin/gomod.vim				@yu-yk
runtime/ftplugin/gprof.vim				@dpelle
runtime/ftplugin/graphql.vim				@jparise
runtime/ftplugin/groff.vim				@e-kwsm
runtime/ftplugin/gyp.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/ftplugin/haml.vim				@tpope
runtime/ftplugin/hare.vim				@selenebun
runtime/ftplugin/haredoc.vim				@selenebun
runtime/ftplugin/heex.vim				@cvincent
runtime/ftplugin/hcl.vim				@gpanders
runtime/ftplugin/hgcommit.vim				@k-takata
runtime/ftplugin/hlsplaylist.vim			@avidseeker
runtime/ftplugin/hog.vim				@wtfbbqhax
runtime/ftplugin/html.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/http.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/hyprlang.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/i3config.vim				@hiqua
runtime/ftplugin/icon.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/indent.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/ishd.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/j.vim					@glts
runtime/ftplugin/java.vim				@zzzyxwvut
runtime/ftplugin/javacc.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/javascript.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/javascriptreact.vim			@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/jjdescription.vim			@gpanders
runtime/ftplugin/json.vim				@dbarnett
runtime/ftplugin/json5.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/jsonc.vim				@izhakjakov
runtime/ftplugin/julia.vim				@carlobaldassi
runtime/ftplugin/just.vim				@pbnj
runtime/ftplugin/jq.vim					@vito-c
runtime/ftplugin/kconfig.vim				@chrisbra
runtime/ftplugin/kdl.vim				@imsnif @jiangyinzuo
runtime/ftplugin/kivy.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/kotlin.vim				@udalov
runtime/ftplugin/ldapconf.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/leo.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/less.vim				@genoma
runtime/ftplugin/lex.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/lf.vim					@andis-sprinkis
runtime/ftplugin/liquid.vim				@tpope
runtime/ftplugin/lua.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/lc.vim					@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/lynx.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/m17ndb.vim				@dseomn
runtime/ftplugin/m3build.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/m3quake.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/markdown.vim				@tpope
runtime/ftplugin/mbsync.vim				@fymyte
runtime/ftplugin/mediawiki.vim				@avidseeker
runtime/ftplugin/meson.vim				@Liambeguin
runtime/ftplugin/modula2.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/modula3.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/mojo.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/mss.vim				@Freed-Wu
runtime/ftplugin/nginx.vim				@chr4
runtime/ftplugin/nim.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/nroff.vim				@averms
runtime/ftplugin/nsis.vim				@k-takata
runtime/ftplugin/nu.vim					@mrcjkb
runtime/ftplugin/octave.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/ondir.vim				@jparise
runtime/ftplugin/opencl.vim				@Freed-Wu
runtime/ftplugin/openscad.vim                           @squibid
runtime/ftplugin/openvpn.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/ftplugin/pascal.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/pbtxt.vim				@lakshayg
runtime/ftplugin/pdf.vim				@tpope
runtime/ftplugin/perl.vim				@petdance @dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/php.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/pkl.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/plsql.vim				@lee-lindley
runtime/ftplugin/pod.vim				@petdance @dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/poefilter.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/ftplugin/postscr.vim				@mrdubya
runtime/ftplugin/pq.vim					@anarion80
runtime/ftplugin/prisma.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/proto.vim				@Limero
runtime/ftplugin/ps1.vim				@heaths
runtime/ftplugin/ps1xml.vim				@heaths
runtime/ftplugin/ptx.vim				@jiangyinzuo
runtime/ftplugin/purescript.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/pymanifest.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/ftplugin/python.vim				@tpict
runtime/ftplugin/qb64.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/qml.vim				@ChaseKnowlden
runtime/ftplugin/racket.vim				@benknoble
runtime/ftplugin/rasi.vim				@fymyte
runtime/ftplugin/readline.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/remind.vim				@joereynolds
runtime/ftplugin/rescript.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/routeros.vim				@zainin
runtime/ftplugin/rst.vim				@marshallward
runtime/ftplugin/ruby.vim				@tpope @dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/rust.vim				@lilyball
runtime/ftplugin/samba.vim				@mperry2
runtime/ftplugin/sass.vim				@tpope
runtime/ftplugin/scala.vim				@derekwyatt
runtime/ftplugin/scheme.vim				@evhan
runtime/ftplugin/scss.vim				@tpope
runtime/ftplugin/sed.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/sh.vim					@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/shaderslang.vim			@mTvare6
runtime/ftplugin/slint.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/snakemake.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/solidity.vim				@coti-z
runtime/ftplugin/solution.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/spajson.vim				@dseomn
runtime/ftplugin/spec.vim				@ignatenkobrain
runtime/ftplugin/squirrel.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/ssa.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/ftplugin/sshdconfig.vim				@jiangyinzuo
runtime/ftplugin/svelte.vim				@igorlfs
runtime/ftplugin/sway.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/swayconfig.vim				@jamespeapen
runtime/ftplugin/systemverilog.vim			@Kocha
runtime/ftplugin/swig.vim				@jmarrec
runtime/ftplugin/tap.vim				@petdance
runtime/ftplugin/tcsh.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/tera.vim				@MuntasirSZN
runtime/ftplugin/terraform.vim				@JannoTjarks
runtime/ftplugin/tf.vim					@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/thrift.vim				@jiangyinzuo
runtime/ftplugin/tiasm.vim				@Freed-Wu
runtime/ftplugin/tidy.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/tmux.vim				@ericpruitt
runtime/ftplugin/toml.vim				@averms
runtime/ftplugin/tt2html.vim				@petdance
runtime/ftplugin/twig.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/typescript.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/typescriptreact.vim			@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/uc.vim					@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/unison.vim				@chuwy
runtime/ftplugin/v.vim					@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/vdf.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/ftplugin/vim.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/wget.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/wget2.vim				@dkearns
runtime/ftplugin/xcompose.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/ftplugin/xml.vim				@chrisbra
runtime/ftplugin/xs.vim					@petdance
runtime/ftplugin/yacc.vim				@ribru17
runtime/ftplugin/zsh.vim				@chrisbra
runtime/import/dist/vimhighlight.vim			@lacygoill
runtime/indent/arduino.vim				@k-takata
runtime/indent/astro.vim				@wuelnerdotexe
runtime/indent/basic.vim				@dkearns
runtime/indent/bst.vim					@tpope
runtime/indent/cdl.vim					@dkearns
runtime/indent/chatito.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/indent/clojure.vim				@axvr
runtime/indent/config.vim				@dkearns
runtime/indent/cs.vim					@nickspoons
runtime/indent/css.vim					@dkearns
runtime/indent/cucumber.vim				@tpope
runtime/indent/d.vim					@dkearns
runtime/indent/dosbatch.vim				@k-takata
runtime/indent/dtd.vim					@dkearns
runtime/indent/dylan.vim				@dkearns
runtime/indent/eiffel.vim				@jocelyn
runtime/indent/elm.vim					@andys8
runtime/indent/erlang.vim				@hcs42
runtime/indent/eruby.vim				@tpope @dkearns
runtime/indent/eterm.vim				@dkearns
runtime/indent/falcon.vim				@steveno
runtime/indent/framescript.vim				@dkearns
runtime/indent/freebasic.vim				@dkearns
runtime/indent/gdscript.vim				@habamax
runtime/indent/gitconfig.vim				@tpope
runtime/indent/gitolite.vim				@sitaramc
runtime/indent/glsl.vim					@gpanders
runtime/indent/go.vim					@dbarnett
runtime/indent/graphql.vim				@jparise
runtime/indent/gyp.vim					@ObserverOfTime
runtime/indent/haml.vim					@tpope
runtime/indent/hare.vim					@selenebun
runtime/indent/hcl.vim					@gpanders
runtime/indent/hog.vim					@wtfbbqhax
runtime/indent/idlang.vim				@dkearns
runtime/indent/j.vim					@glts
runtime/indent/java.vim					@xuhdev
runtime/indent/javascript.vim				@bounceme
runtime/indent/json.vim					@elzr
runtime/indent/jsonc.vim				@izhakjakov
runtime/indent/julia.vim				@carlobaldassi
runtime/indent/just.vim					@pbnj
runtime/indent/kdl.vim					@imsnif @jiangyinzuo
runtime/indent/kotlin.vim				@udalov
runtime/indent/krl.vim					@KnoP-01
runtime/indent/ld.vim					@dkearns
runtime/indent/less.vim					@genoma
runtime/indent/liquid.vim				@tpope
runtime/indent/lua.vim					@marcuscf
runtime/indent/m17ndb.vim				@dseomn
runtime/indent/make.vim					@dkearns
runtime/indent/meson.vim				@Liambeguin
runtime/indent/mma.vim					@dkearns
runtime/indent/mojo.vim					@ribru17
runtime/indent/nginx.vim				@chr4
runtime/indent/nsis.vim					@k-takata
runtime/indent/occam.vim				@dkearns
runtime/indent/perl.vim					@petdance
runtime/indent/php.vim					@2072
runtime/indent/postscr.vim				@mrdubya
runtime/indent/prolog.vim				@dkearns
runtime/indent/proto.vim				@Limero
runtime/indent/ps1.vim					@heaths
runtime/indent/qb64.vim					@dkearns
runtime/indent/qml.vim					@ChaseKnowlden
runtime/indent/racket.vim				@benknoble
runtime/indent/rapid.vim				@KnoP-01
runtime/indent/readline.vim				@dkearns
runtime/indent/ruby.vim					@AndrewRadev @dkearns
runtime/indent/sass.vim					@tpope
runtime/indent/scala.vim				@derekwyatt
runtime/indent/scheme.vim				@evhan
runtime/indent/scss.vim					@tpope
runtime/indent/sh.vim					@chrisbra
runtime/indent/solidity.vim				@coti-z
runtime/indent/spajson.vim				@dseomn
runtime/indent/systemverilog.vim			@Kocha
runtime/indent/tcl.vim					@dkearns
runtime/indent/tcsh.vim					@dkearns
runtime/indent/teraterm.vim				@k-takata
runtime/indent/terraform.vim				@gpanders
runtime/indent/thrift.vim				@jiangyinzuo
runtime/indent/typescript.vim				@HerringtonDarkholme
runtime/indent/vroom.vim				@dbarnett
runtime/indent/xml.vim					@chrisbra
runtime/indent/zsh.vim					@chrisbra
runtime/keymap/armenian-eastern_utf-8.vim		@blinskey
runtime/keymap/armenian-western_utf-8.vim		@blinskey
runtime/keymap/brazilian_portuguese-abnt.vim		@LuMarquesIlva
runtime/keymap/brazilian_portuguese-compact.vim		@LuMarquesIlva
runtime/keymap/russian-typograph.vim			@RestorerZ
runtime/keymap/tamil_tscii.vim				@yegappan
runtime/keymap/ukrainian-enhanced.vim			@Dolfost
runtime/lang/menu_en_gb.latin1.vim			@mrdubya
runtime/lang/menu_ru_ru.cp1251.vim			@RestorerZ
runtime/lang/menu_ru_ru.koi8-r.vim			@RestorerZ
runtime/lang/menu_ru_ru.utf-8.vim			@RestorerZ
runtime/pack/dist/opt/cfilter/plugin/cfilter.vim	@yegappan
runtime/pack/dist/opt/comment/				@habamax
runtime/pack/dist/opt/helptoc/				@kennypete
runtime/pack/dist/opt/matchit/				@chrisbra
runtime/pack/dist/opt/nohlsearch/			@habamax
runtime/plugin/manpager.vim				@Konfekt
runtime/syntax/shared/hgcommitDiff.vim			@vegerot
runtime/syntax/abaqus.vim				@costerwi
runtime/syntax/abnf.vim					@A4-Tacks
runtime/syntax/aidl.vim					@dpelle
runtime/syntax/ant.vim					@dkearns
runtime/syntax/antlr4.vim				@jiangyinzuo
runtime/syntax/arduino.vim				@johshoff
runtime/syntax/asciidoc.vim				@aerostitch
runtime/syntax/asm.vim					@dkearns
runtime/syntax/asmh8300.vim				@dkearns
runtime/syntax/asterisk.vim				@jaunis
runtime/syntax/astro.vim				@wuelnerdotexe
runtime/syntax/asy.vim					@avidseeker
runtime/syntax/autohotkey.vim				@mmikeww
runtime/syntax/awk.vim					@dkearns
runtime/syntax/basic.vim				@dkearns
runtime/syntax/bst.vim					@tpope
runtime/syntax/bzl.vim					@dbarnett
runtime/syntax/bzr.vim					@hdima
runtime/syntax/cabal.vim				@coot
runtime/syntax/cabalconfig.vim				@coot
runtime/syntax/cabalproject.vim				@coot
runtime/syntax/cangjie.vim				@WuJunkai2004
runtime/syntax/cf.vim					@ernstvanderlinden
runtime/syntax/chatito.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/syntax/chicken.vim				@evhan
runtime/syntax/chuck.vim				@andreacfromtheapp
runtime/syntax/clojure.vim				@axvr
runtime/syntax/cs.vim					@nickspoons
runtime/syntax/csv.vim					@habamax
runtime/syntax/cucumber.vim				@tpope
runtime/syntax/d.vim					@JesseKPhillips
runtime/syntax/dart.vim					@pr3d4t0r
runtime/syntax/datascript.vim				@dpelle
runtime/syntax/dax.vim					@anarion80
runtime/syntax/deb822sources.vim			@jamessan
runtime/syntax/debchangelog.vim				@jamessan
runtime/syntax/debcontrol.vim				@jamessan
runtime/syntax/debcopyright.vim				@jamessan
runtime/syntax/debsources.vim				@jamessan
runtime/syntax/dep3patch.vim				@jamessan
runtime/syntax/desktop.vim				@e-kwsm
runtime/syntax/dosbatch.vim				@mrdubya
runtime/syntax/dosini.vim				@xuhdev
runtime/syntax/dot.vim					@mmottl
runtime/syntax/doxygen.vim				@frogonwheels
runtime/syntax/dtd.vim					@chrisbra
runtime/syntax/dts.vim					@zonque
runtime/syntax/editorconfig.vim				@gpanders
runtime/syntax/eiffel.vim				@jocelyn
runtime/syntax/erlang.vim				@hcs42
runtime/syntax/eruby.vim				@tpope @dkearns
runtime/syntax/expect.vim				@dkearns
runtime/syntax/falcon.vim				@steveno
runtime/syntax/fetchmail.vim				@dkearns
runtime/syntax/forth.vim				@jkotlinski
runtime/syntax/fpcmake.vim				@dkearns
runtime/syntax/freebasic.vim				@dkearns
runtime/syntax/fstab.vim				@rid9
runtime/syntax/gdresource.vim				@habamax
runtime/syntax/gdscript.vim				@habamax
runtime/syntax/gdshader.vim				@habamax
runtime/syntax/git.vim					@tpope
runtime/syntax/gitattributes.vim			@ObserverOfTime
runtime/syntax/gitcommit.vim				@tpope
runtime/syntax/gitconfig.vim				@tpope
runtime/syntax/gitignore.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/syntax/gitolite.vim				@sitaramc
runtime/syntax/gitrebase.vim				@tpope
runtime/syntax/gleam.vim				@kirillmorozov
runtime/syntax/glsl.vim					@gpanders
runtime/syntax/go.vim					@bhcleek
runtime/syntax/goaccess.vim				@meonkeys
runtime/syntax/godoc.vim				@dbarnett
runtime/syntax/gp.vim					@KBelabas
runtime/syntax/gprof.vim				@dpelle
runtime/syntax/graphql.vim				@jparise
runtime/syntax/groff.vim				@jmarshall
runtime/syntax/gyp.vim					@ObserverOfTime
runtime/syntax/haml.vim					@tpope
runtime/syntax/hare.vim					@selenebun
runtime/syntax/haredoc.vim				@selenebun
runtime/syntax/haskell.vim				@coot
runtime/syntax/hcl.vim					@gpanders
runtime/syntax/help.vim					@dkearns
runtime/syntax/help_ru.vim				@RestorerZ
runtime/syntax/hgcommit.vim				@k-takata
runtime/syntax/hitest.vim				@lacygoill
runtime/syntax/hog.vim					@wtfbbqhax
runtime/syntax/hollywood.vim				@sodero
runtime/syntax/html.vim					@dkearns
runtime/syntax/htmlangular.vim				@dlvandenberg
runtime/syntax/i3config.vim				@hiqua
runtime/syntax/icon.vim					@dkearns
runtime/syntax/indent.vim				@dkearns
runtime/syntax/j.vim					@glts
runtime/syntax/jargon.vim				@h3xx
runtime/syntax/java.vim					@zzzyxwvut
runtime/syntax/javascript.vim				@fleiner
runtime/syntax/jinja.vim				@gpanders
runtime/syntax/jjdescription.vim			@gpanders
runtime/syntax/json.vim					@vito-c
runtime/syntax/jsonc.vim				@izhakjakov
runtime/syntax/julia.vim				@carlobaldassi
runtime/syntax/just.vim					@pbnj
runtime/syntax/jq.vim					@vito-c
runtime/syntax/karel.vim				@kirillmorozov
runtime/syntax/kconfig.vim				@chrisbra
runtime/syntax/kivy.vim					@prophittcorey
runtime/syntax/kotlin.vim				@udalov
runtime/syntax/kdl.vim					@imsnif @jiangyinzuo
runtime/syntax/krl.vim					@KnoP-01
runtime/syntax/less.vim					@genoma
runtime/syntax/lf.vim					@andis-sprinkis
runtime/syntax/liquid.vim				@tpope
runtime/syntax/lua.vim					@marcuscf
runtime/syntax/lyrics.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/syntax/lynx.vim					@dkearns
runtime/syntax/m17ndb.vim				@dseomn
runtime/syntax/m3build.vim				@dkearns
runtime/syntax/m3quake.vim				@dkearns
runtime/syntax/mailcap.vim				@dkearns
runtime/syntax/make.vim					@rohieb
runtime/syntax/mallard.vim				@jhradilek
runtime/syntax/markdown.vim				@tpope
runtime/syntax/mbsync.vim				@fymyte
runtime/syntax/mason.vim				@petdance
runtime/syntax/mediawiki.vim				@avidseeker
runtime/syntax/meson.vim				@Liambeguin
runtime/syntax/modula2.vim				@dkearns
runtime/syntax/modula2/opt/iso.vim			@trijezdci
runtime/syntax/modula2/opt/pim.vim			@trijezdci
runtime/syntax/modula2/opt/r10.vim			@trijezdci
runtime/syntax/modula3.vim				@dkearns
runtime/syntax/mss.vim					@Freed-Wu
runtime/syntax/n1ql.vim					@pr3d4t0r
runtime/syntax/nginx.vim				@chr4
runtime/syntax/ninja.vim				@nico
runtime/syntax/nix.vim					@equill
runtime/syntax/nroff.vim				@jmarshall
runtime/syntax/nsis.vim					@k-takata
runtime/syntax/odin.vim					@habamax
runtime/syntax/omnimark.vim				@kennypete
runtime/syntax/ondir.vim				@jparise
runtime/syntax/opencl.vim				@Freed-Wu
runtime/syntax/openvpn.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/syntax/pacmanlog.vim				@rpigott
runtime/syntax/pascal.vim				@dkearns
runtime/syntax/pbtxt.vim				@lakshayg
runtime/syntax/pdf.vim					@tpope
runtime/syntax/perl.vim					@petdance
runtime/syntax/php.vim					@TysonAndre
runtime/syntax/plsql.vim				@lee-lindley
runtime/syntax/pod.vim					@petdance
runtime/syntax/poefilter.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/syntax/postscr.vim				@mrdubya
runtime/syntax/pq.vim					@anarion80
runtime/syntax/privoxy.vim				@dkearns
runtime/syntax/progress.vim				@rdnlsmith
runtime/syntax/prolog.vim				@XVilka
runtime/syntax/prql.vim					@vanillajonathan
runtime/syntax/ps1.vim					@heaths
runtime/syntax/ps1xml.vim				@heaths
runtime/syntax/psl.vim					@danielkho
runtime/syntax/ptx.vim					@jiangyinzuo
runtime/syntax/pymanifest.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/syntax/qb64.vim					@dkearns
runtime/syntax/qml.vim					@ChaseKnowlden
runtime/syntax/racket.vim				@benknoble
runtime/syntax/raml.vim					@in3d
runtime/syntax/rapid.vim				@KnoP-01
runtime/syntax/ratpoison.vim				@trapd00r
runtime/syntax/rasi.vim					@fymyte
runtime/syntax/rc.vim					@chrisbra
runtime/syntax/rcs.vim					@hdima
runtime/syntax/rebol.vim				@mrdubya
runtime/syntax/rego.vim					@zenmatic
runtime/syntax/resolv.vim				@rid9
runtime/syntax/rng.vim					@jhradilek
runtime/syntax/routeros.vim				@zainin
runtime/syntax/rst.vim					@marshallward
runtime/syntax/ruby.vim					@dkearns
runtime/syntax/salt.vim					@gpanders
runtime/syntax/sass.vim					@tpope
runtime/syntax/scala.vim				@derekwyatt
runtime/syntax/scheme.vim				@evhan
runtime/syntax/scss.vim					@tpope
runtime/syntax/sed.vim					@dkearns
runtime/syntax/shared/debversions.vim			@jamessan
runtime/syntax/shaderslang.vim				@mTvare6
runtime/syntax/solidity.vim				@coti-z
runtime/syntax/spajson.vim				@dseomn
runtime/syntax/spec.vim					@ignatenkobrain
runtime/syntax/sqloracle.vim				@chrisbra
runtime/syntax/squirrel.vim				@zenmatic
runtime/syntax/srt.vim					@ObserverOfTime
runtime/syntax/ssa.vim					@ObserverOfTime
runtime/syntax/sshconfig.vim				@Jakuje
runtime/syntax/sshdconfig.vim				@Jakuje
runtime/syntax/sudoers.vim				@e-kwsm
runtime/syntax/svn.vim					@hdima
runtime/syntax/swayconfig.vim				@jamespeapen
runtime/syntax/swig.vim					@jmarrec
runtime/syntax/systemverilog.vim			@Kocha
runtime/syntax/tap.vim					@petdance
runtime/syntax/tcsh.vim					@dkearns
runtime/syntax/tera.vim					@MuntasirSZN
runtime/syntax/teraterm.vim				@k-takata
runtime/syntax/terraform.vim				@gpanders
runtime/syntax/thrift.vim				@jiangyinzuo
runtime/syntax/tiasm.vim				@Freed-Wu
runtime/syntax/tidy.vim					@dkearns
runtime/syntax/tmux.vim					@ericpruitt
runtime/syntax/toml.vim					@averms
runtime/syntax/tt2.vim					@petdance
runtime/syntax/tt2html.vim				@petdance
runtime/syntax/tt2js.vim				@petdance
runtime/syntax/typescript.vim				@HerringtonDarkholme @rhysd
runtime/syntax/typescriptreact.vim			@HerringtonDarkholme @rhysd
runtime/syntax/typst.vim				@gpanders
runtime/syntax/shared/typescriptcommon.vim		@HerringtonDarkholme @rhysd
runtime/syntax/unison.vim				@chuwy
runtime/syntax/vdf.vim					@ObserverOfTime
runtime/syntax/vroom.vim				@dbarnett
runtime/syntax/wdl.vim					@zenmatic
runtime/syntax/wget.vim					@dkearns
runtime/syntax/wget2.vim				@dkearns
runtime/syntax/xbl.vim					@dkearns
runtime/syntax/xcompose.vim				@ObserverOfTime
runtime/syntax/xml.vim					@chrisbra
runtime/syntax/xs.vim					@petdance
runtime/syntax/xslt.vim					@Boobies
runtime/syntax/zserio.vim				@dpelle
runtime/syntax/zsh.vim					@chrisbra
runtime/tutor/tutor1.eo					@dpelle
runtime/tutor/tutor1.fr					@dpelle
runtime/tutor/tutor1.ru					@RestorerZ
runtime/tutor/tutor2.fr					@dlejay
src/iscygpty.*						@k-takata
src/libvterm/						@leonerd
src/po/ca.po						@nfdisco
src/po/de.po						@chrisbra
src/po/eo.po						@dpelle
src/po/es.po						@victorhck
src/po/fi.po						@flammie
src/po/fr.po						@dpelle
src/po/ga.po						@kscanne
src/po/hy.po						@gagikh
src/po/it.po						@azc100
src/po/ja.po						@k-takata
src/po/ru.po						@RestorerZ
src/po/sr.po						@eevan78
src/po/tr.po						@bitigchi
src/po/uk.po						@sakhnik
src/xxd/						@jnweiger
