.TH VIMTUTOR 1 "2024 November 04"
.SH NAME
vimtutor \- the Vim tutor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B vimtutor [\-l | \-\-language ISO639] [\-c | \-\-chapter NUMBER] [\-g | \-\-gui] [ISO639]
.br
.B vimtutor [\-h | \-\-help]
.br
.B vimtutor [\-\-list]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Vimtutor
starts the
.B Vim
tutor.
.PP
The
.B Vimtutor
is useful for people that want to learn their first
.B Vim
commands.
The optional [language] argument is the two-letter name of a language, like
"it" or "es".
.PP
.B Vimtutor
only opens temporary copies of the original tutor files, there is no danger of overwriting the lessons.
.PP
.B Vim
is always started in
.B Vi
compatible mode.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-language =\fIISO639\fR
Set the two or three letter language code. E.g. 'it', 'es', 'bar'. Defaults to language of locale if available, else to English.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-chapter =\fINUMBER\fR
Set the chapter number. Defaults to chapter one.
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-gui
Start
.B vimtutor
in the GUI version of vim if available, otherwise fallback to console vim.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display usage information.
.TP
.BR \-\-list
Display chapters and languages.
.SH EXAMPLES
To start
.B vimtutor
in German on chapter one:
.PP
.nf
.RS
vimtutor de
.RE
.fi
.PP
In English on chapter two:
.PP
.nf
.RS
vimtutor -c2
.RE
.fi
.PP
Longform command for Bavarian in the GUI on chapter one:
.PP
.nf
.RS
vimtutor --language bar --chapter 1 --gui
.RE
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP 15
/usr/local/share/vim/vim??/tutor/tutor[.language]
The
.B Vimtutor
chapter one text file(s).
.TP 15
/usr/local/share/vim/vim??/tutor/tutor2[.language]
The
.B Vimtutor
chapter two text file(s).
.TP 15
/usr/local/share/vim/vim??/tutor/tutor.vim
The
.B Vim
script used to copy the
.B Vimtutor
text file.
.SH AUTHOR
.B The Vi Tutorial
was originally written for Vi by Michael C. Pierce and Robert K. Ware, Colorado School of Mines using ideas supplied by Charles Smith, Colorado State University.
.B E-mail: bware@mines.colorado.edu (now invalid).
.PP
Modified for
.B Vim
by Bram Moolenaar.
.PP
Translation contributors are listed in the tutor files.
.SH SEE ALSO
vim(1)
